docs/howto/rotate-secrets.md, before:

# Rotate Secrets

> TL;DR – Rotate API keys and credentials without downtime by staging new values, triggering config reloads, and confirming session continuity.

## Preparation

1. Inventory secrets stored in Vault or your secret manager.
2. Update `config.toml` placeholders and export new values as environment variables.
3. Schedule a rotation window and notify stakeholders.

Document default keys in [Configuration](../reference/config.md) for posterity, but never commit actual secrets.

## Rotation Steps

1. **Stage** – Write the new secret to your secret manager and ensure the deployment pipeline can read it.
2. **Deploy** – Redeploy the service with refreshed environment variables. For Kubernetes, restart pods with `kubectl rollout restart deployment/rustygpt-server`.
3. **Verify** – Run smoke tests:

```bash
cargo run -p rustygpt-cli -- auth me
curl -sSf http://localhost:8080/api/health
```

Sessions should remain valid because cookies are independent of backend secrets. If rotating session signing keys, drain sessions gracefully using the guidance in [REST API](../reference/api.md).

## Observability

- Monitor `rustygpt_auth_session_rotations_total`.
- Check error logs for failed decryptions or outbound integration issues.
- Confirm SSE streams reconnect cleanly as described in [Streaming Delivery](../architecture/streaming.md).

## Incident Response

If a rotation fails:

1. Roll back to the previous secret value.
2. Capture logs and metrics for the incident timeline.
3. File an ADR per the template if process changes are needed.

## Automation Ideas

1. Integrate with `just docs-index` to ensure documentation references stay current.
2. Add alerts when secrets near expiry windows to prompt proactive rotations.

Commit message:

docs: align documentation with current implementation (#43)

docs/howto/rotate-secrets.md, after:

# Rotate secrets

Use this runbook to update credentials (database passwords, OAuth secrets, session keys) while keeping RustyGPT online.

## Preparation

1. Inventory the secrets in use (e.g. `DATABASE_URL`, `GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`, config entries under `[security.cookie]`).
2. Update your secret manager or environment files with new values, but do not apply them yet.
3. Coordinate a maintenance window if session cookie rotation is expected to log users out.

## Rotation steps

1. **Stage** – write new values to your secret store or `.env` file.
2. **Deploy** – restart the server with updated environment variables/config (`docker compose restart backend` or rolling
   restart in your orchestrator). The bootstrap runner is idempotent, so restarting is safe.
3. **Verify** – run smoke tests:
   ```bash
   cargo run -p rustygpt-cli -- login
   cargo run -p rustygpt-cli -- me
   curl -sSf http://HOST:8080/readyz
   ```
4. **Cleanup** – remove old secrets from the manager and audit logs for unexpected errors.

Session cookies are independent of database passwords or OAuth secrets. If you change `[security.cookie]` settings (e.g. enable
`secure` or change `session_cookie_name`), expect users to sign in again.

## Observability

- Watch application logs for `SessionService` warnings.
- Confirm `http_rate_limit_requests_total` continues to increment after the restart.
- Verify the CLI can still access streaming endpoints (`cargo run -p rustygpt-cli -- follow --root <id>`).

## Incident response

If a rotation fails:

1. Roll back to the previous secret values and restart the server.
2. Capture logs around the failure (authentication errors, database connection failures, etc.).
3. File an issue or ADR documenting the change and follow-up actions.
